# Fractal-Generator
Program I started to write on a car ride summer of 2013.  It generates colored pictures of Mandelbrot and Julia sets.
The sets are generated based off of recursive mathematical functions that take complex numbers as parameters. The color of a point is absed on how many iterations of the functions it took for a point to diverge, and the black points are points that did not diverge after the number of iterations checked.  For example, the number of iterations checked may be 256, so then the points that do not diverge after 256 iterations will be colored black. 
This program was written a long time ago, and I was still familiarisinzg my self with the swing library, so the code is messy.  I will eventually rewrite the program and to make it more effecient and make the code more readable.

The function the mandelbrot set uses is Un = (Un-1)^2 + U0.  For all complex numbers, U0 is set to the value and the function is iterated, if the funciton reamins bounded, then it is in the set, otehrwise it is not in the set.  It is proven that it will diverge if the magnitude of any iterations is greater than 4, so the color is absed on the number of iterations it takes for the set to exceed 4.  Since some points may require nearly infinite number of iterations before having a magnitude greater than four, the program checks a fininte number of iterations, and assumes all points that do not diverge after that many iterations will never diverge.  This results in the program overestimating the size of the set (by a very small amount).  Increasing the number of iteratoins will "carve" details into the curve, but it will also increase the computing time require to find them.  Julia sets are generated by the same function, but instead of setting the complex number being tested to U0, they set it to the same constant for all copmlex numbers.  This means there are an infinite number of Julia sets.
